Cookies
HTTP cookies are one of the most talked about, but least understood, aspects of the web.

When cookies are talked about in the news, they're usually implied to simply be privacy-stealing bad guys. While cookies can certainly invade your privacy, that's not what they are.

What Is an HTTP Cookie?
A cookie is a small piece of data that a server sends to a client. The client then dutifully stores the cookie and sends it back to the server on subsequent requests.

Cookies can store any arbitrary data:

A user's name or other tracking information
A JWT (refresh and access tokens)
Items in a shopping cart
etc.
The server decides what to put in a cookie, and the client's job is simply to store it and send it back.

How Do Cookies Work?
Simply put, cookies work through HTTP headers.

Cookies are sent from the server to the client in the Set-Cookie header. Cookies are most popular for web (browser-based) applications because browsers automatically send any cookies they have back to the server in the Cookie header.

Why Aren't We Using Cookies?
Simply put, Chirpy's API is designed to be consumed by mobile apps and other servers. Cookies are primarily for browsers.

A good use-case for cookies is to serve as a more strict and secure transport layer for JWTs within the context of a browser-based application.

For example, when using httpOnly cookies, you can ensure that 3rd party JavaScript that's being executed on your website can't access any cookies. That's a lot better than storing JWTs in the browser's local storage, where it's easily accessible to any JavaScript running on the page.
